-: Welcome back.
So in the previous lecture, we have ensured
that we have created a new Docker image,
we have built the new Docker image
and then pushed it to the Docker Hub,
and then verified it.
So now we are going to see few essential Docker commands.
So most of them already we have used,
and then we have implemented so far
in our last few lectures, but we can again one more time,
have a look into it, okay?
So, docker ps, which is nothing but,
list all running containers,
docker ps -a, list all containers,
stopped and then running, so both.
So and then, docker stop and then container ID,
stop the container which is running.
So either it is a container ID,
or you can give the container name also,
if your container is named
with hyphen hyphen name when you are running it.
Docker run and then hyphen hyphen name if you have given.
So then when you're stopping it or starting it,
instead of finding the container ID and giving it,
you know the name, then you can directly give the name,
even for start and then restart also,
you can use those.
So docker port container ID will provide you
the list of port mappings of a specific container.
And for removing the container, either container ID
or name you can provide.
And docker remove the running containers forcefully,
you can use -f as the one of the argument.
So, and if you want to see the image info,
pull the image from Docker Hub repository.
So docker pull and then image info.
Image info is nothing but the complete image name.
And pull the image from Docker Hub repository,
this is an additional example
for whatever we are seeing here.
This is the example.
So, in addition you are seeing the docker exec -it
and the container name, and then /bin/sh
to connect to the Linux container
and execute commands on that respective container.
So, which means connect to the container
and then execute commands or verify something,
you can do this one.
And to remove the image, docker rmi,
and to log out from our Docker Hub account, docker logout.
To log in, docker login.
And then to display a live stats of our container,
docker stats.
So to display the running processes of a container,
docker top.
And finally, you see here the docker version.
So there will be lot of sub-commands
under docker run and all those things,
but on a very high level, to manage Docker,
these are the core commands which we should be aware of.
And more commands we'll be adding,
when we are getting more, gaining experience
on the Docker, by implementing multiple use cases.
But, from fundamentals perspective,
how to stop containers, start container, what is an image,
how to download the image, how to run the image,
and how to remove the image,
and how to remove the container,
or how to connect to the container terminal,
all these things are required,
and all these things are listed here.
So this completes the essential commands overview
for Docker.
So, I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye, thank you.